-- The Way of the Game --

-

Once, a novice came to watch the master play.
Presently, he asked "How do you rocket all those people in the air?"
The master replied, "I am but the messenger.  The rockets find their own targets."
The novice, still confused, said "But how will I make these shots?"
The master said, "Perhaps someday you will see the way.  The rocket's only purpose is the enemy, and it desires this."
The novice shook his head.  "All I see is the luck and the chance of the shot."
The master sighed, told the novice "That is all I see when I miss," and told him to go away for he was busy.

One week later, the student came to the master, very excited.
"Look, for I have made an air shot!"
The master became displeased.
"No, you have not. You have simply fired a random rocket, which happened to hit."
The student grew angry, but said nothing and went back to the game.

One month later, the student came to the master again.
"Look," he said, "For my enemy has flown right into this rocket!"
The master was not angered, but nevertheless took a stern voice.
"Why would your enemy do that?  He does not want your rocket to hit him."

One year later, the student once again came to the master.
"Look," he said, "For my rockets have become vengeful!  They have all hit my enemy in the air."
At this, the master became overjoyed.  "Would that you were always so lucky.  Let us play."

-

Sit back and watch a master fight a novice.

Perhaps the novice's sensitivity is too high, or perhaps he is nervous.  
He skitters about, quickly looking around, his paths through the world aimless.

Is he not like the hunted deer?

The master's motions, and his very existence, are calculated and predatory.  
He knows where he is going, and his enemy's location is inconsequential.
He takes his time, not concerned with speed or efficiency, yet is always where he needs to be.
He is fluid and adaptable.

Is he not like the jungle cat?

-

The novice spends his time trying to predict his opponent, the master spends his time trying to prepare himself.
To have preconceived notions of his enemy's goals would be utter folly.

-

The ping and the frame rate, while totally consuming the novice, are inconsequential to the master.

The master knows that it is not reflexes that win games.  It is the will and the opponent himself.

-

The novice was watching the master play, when the master made a simple mistake and was killed.
He asked the master, "Why does this not worry you?  You have practiced your whole life for this, yet fail."
The master said, "I have been shot so many times that it becomes meaningless.
One frag will not win a game, nor will one death lose it.
Look now, I have been killed, yet have spawned in the perfect location."
And he proceeded to win back the point.

-

The master's rail is unerring, his aim precise.
Asked by his student, "How do you not miss?", the master replied, 
"The unskilled seek to aim at their opponent, thinking about the crosshair and the enemy himself.
You must realize the railgun is not a weapon, rather an extension of the master's will.  
I do not aim. I simply exist, and fire when the gun deems it appropriate."

-

The master does not seek recognition, nor fame.  He plays simply to play; he wins simply because he is playing.

-

Some players complain when they lose, blaming their loss on their opponent, or the circumstances.
They claim they could have won, if only things would go their way.
This is not the way of the game.

-

There is nothing but the game.  The players come and go, and the semantics change, but the game remains.
Do you say "I am playing the world and my reality?"
Thus, the master does not say "I am playing this game."
This is the way of the game.

-

The novice again came to the master.  "Your reflexes, so quick.  How can you react so fast?"
The master replied, "I have studied this opponent.  I know which way he dodges, how he moves; 
I am not reacting, simply letting the gun fire where he will be."

-

The novice once became overwhelmed.  "How can you possibly attain such mastery of the game?"
The master simply smiled.  "I am no master.  The true master does not shoot, nor collect powerups, nor fight at all.
The true master is of the game itself.  It exists inside him, and he inside it.  This is the way of the game."

"The master does not think about the game.  He does not contemplate strategy.  He does not envision death.  
He becomes the game itself, strategy itself, death itself.  
He meditates on the very existence of the game, its complexities,
its simplicities, its beauty; and when the time comes, he succeeds."

-

Once a master was summoned before the shogun, and was asked to prove his worth. 
The master asked, "Great sir, how may I prove myself?  I do not seek the game for the sake of fame or money.  
I seek the game only for its wisdom.  I do not seek frags, I seek to become one with the game.  
I do not desire to win, I only seek to understand the game." 
The shogun replied, "Would that all of my warriors were as wise as you."

-

The game does not draw its purpose from frags.  Its meaning is not derived from deaths, from spawns, 
from the ever-shifting landscape.  The game simply exists, and frags are but patterns along its face, 
like dragonflies mating on a flower in the Spring.

-

Far to the west, there is a great sect.  They fret over each match, caring only about their position in the
void known as the Tournament.  They have skill; they do not know the way of the game.  Thus, when they play
the true master, they stare in disbelief at the master's serenity and lack of effort.

-

Once, the student approached the master.  
"Why do you not move continuously?  Does not standing still bring the enemy upon you?"
The master replied, "There is wisdom in stillness.  You must not always run to and fro, like the dog chasing its own tail.  
This is folly.  To know when to be still is to attain an understanding of the game.  
Let the enemy come to you, and you will destroy him."

-

The angry novice confronted the master.  "You camp!  You control the level wholly by doing so, and this is why you win."
The master stood up.  "Is not control of the level important?  You have told me that you wish success by any means."
"The method of camping is great and old.  It began long ago, and it meant 'to shoot the spawn point'."
"With the modern advance of multiple spawn points, this is an antiquated term.  There is no shame in standing still."
"If standing still allows you to win, and you deem this unfair, consult the architect and not your opponent."

-


