title: Stillness of the mind
shoeboximage: 2004-10-28-another%20park/IMG_8600.JPG
Please excuse me while I wax philosophical for a moment.
I seem to recall reading in some Taoist text at some point a phrase that was like "Imagine if you could perform as well when it mattered as you could when it didn't."  Perhaps it was on <a href="http://taoism.net">taoism.net</a>, I don't know.  But anyway, I find that I do indeed perform better when I don't think the results matter, particularly in tennis.  As soon as I start caring about the score, or caring about whether or not I win, I start to perform significantly worse.  If I can convince myself that the match I'm playing doesn't matter at all, then I'm free to experiment, free to take risks that I wouldn't take if I was afraid of losing.  Not only that, but if I care about the results, I can't enjoy myself while I'm playing.  
As an experiment, I tried to convince myself for a couple of days that what I did didn't matter -- that I wouldn't get better during a match, so I might as well not care about the outcome.  I immediately started winning.  Since I was winning, I started to care about the results of the match, and started losing again.  
Perhaps this is what people mean when they say "you think too much."  If your mind is focused only on the outcome, your cup is full; you can't focus on the positioning of each hit.  You try to turn each stroke into a total winner, and as any tennis player knows this is utterly impossible.  When you free your concentration to think about the task at hand (i.e. by not caring about the outcome of the match), you start thinking about what matters -- where to put your feet, how much fuzz the tennis ball has on it, how bouncy it is, that sort of thing -- and something completely unexpected and magical happens: you enjoy yourself.  It allows you to laugh at yourself when you make stupid mistakes, to truly appreciate both yours and your opponent's good shots.  All too many times I've seen players make a simple mistake and beat themselves up over it, only to repeat the mistake during the next rally since all they could think about was how much they wanted to force a winner to make up for their mistake.  We're not telekinetic, and playing good tennis is about being receptive as well as being agressive (pardon the corny yin/yang reference).  If I'm surprised by where the ball goes, I don't hate the ball for it; I laugh about it.  The best players in the world are the best because they never stop learning something new about the game.  
The same is true in photography.  I take my best pictures when I'm not concerned about whether or not the picture will be good.  It's easier in photography, however, since there isn't a running score; if you want to take 20 crappy pictures followed by 1 great picture, it doesn't affect the outcome like making 20 crappy strokes in tennis does.
Okay, I'm done rambling.  Sorry.
I have completed the application process for CSU now.  All I have left to do is wait for a decision.  Next semester, I'll be taking 14 credit hours at FRCC, I'll be working 16 hours per week, and I was thinking of tacking on a month of tennis lessons during September or November.  Guess I'll be busy; I hope I don't have to drop a class.  Two of my classes (the digital photo class and philosophy) will most likely have no serious homework, so I should be fine.
